## Tip  75 : Don't be afraid with `mixin`, it's here to help

### 💣 Spoiler : `mixin` is not related to Animation by any means 😂, its just another keyword like `class`

### But mixin is similar to

#### **fastfood 🍔/ plugin 🧩/ an interface with already implemented methods & state, that is ready to be used without reimplementing those features everywhere we need them**

When paired up with a `StatefulWidget`'s `State`,`TickerProviderStateMixin` creates `ticker` that ticks with every frame which is need by every AnimationController . It also disposes ticker when stateful widget disposes. That's why we provide `this` as TickerProvider(`vsync`) in every AnimationController.

Similarly we use ListMixin to use obvious implementation of List so that we do not have to implement obvious stuffs in every List implementation like `ElementList,NodeList,FileList,TouchList` etc.

`extends (inheritance)` => only one class can be inherited along with their public/protected members and behaviors.

`implements (contract)` => many classes can be implemented but we have to redefine every behavior.

`with(mixin)` => Many classes can be mixed in and we can reuse the behavior of them.

Any class or abstract class can be used as mixin. But we declare mixin, it cannot be extended like normal class or abstract class.

    class A{} //Declaring class
    mixin B{} //Declaring mixin
    class C extends A{} // Valid ✅
    class C extends B{} // Invalid ❌

A mixin cannot use another mixin.

    mixin C with B{} // Invalid ❌

#### Conclusion : Use `mixin` if you want to reuse the behavior and state of multiple classes

